>> Melkey: But now comes the,
how do we deal with their passwords, okay?
And there's a very elegant way for
us to deal with the password here, okay?
First thing is,
we have to hash their password.
We do not ever wanna see
their password store them.
A good rule of thumb is,
the less data you store,
the better it is to maintain your app,
the more PII, the more other stuff.
Then you have to kind of jump through
all these like hoops regulations, and
it just makes your job harder and
tougher and more prone to attacks.
But our case,
because we do wanna store user passwords,
we're gonna do have to hash these.
And so how can we do this?
Well, if we go back to our
user_store.go file for just a second,
you'll notice that our
password is its own struct.
And we know because a password
is its own type or own struct,
you can have its own methods, and
this is a very powerful thing for
us, as we continue to create
methods that a hash the passwords.
And then when a user logs in,
we can use that to see if the password
they're passing is the hash is
the plain text representation
of what we have in our database.
So here we can do p,
it's gonna type password like so, oops.
And the first method we're
gonna create is called set.
I'm gonna take a plain text password as a
string, and it's going to return an error,
all right, and
if you still kept bcrypt in your import,
now's a good time to
remove that ignore import.
Because here we're gonna do hash error.
I'm gonna write bcrypt.
You can see it basically only has,
if I'm not mistaken,
bcrypt only has like a few methods, but
we can do generate from password, okay?
And reaction transform that plain
text password into a slice of bytes.
So can do slice byte and we can pass
in the plain text password like so.
And here would be the hashing algorithm,
the salt.
So I'm not gonna try to pretend
like I'm a security individual.
The thing I know is,
the higher this value is,
the more secure the hashing algorithm
will be for hashing the password.
However, the longer the compute time
it takes to do and process that,
the lower it is, the less secure that hash
will be, but the faster it is at computing
that password represents that hash
resentation from plain text, password.
I think standard documentation
shows 12 as a good middle ground.
But again, this is depending on the need,
depending on how it is, depending
on what compute you have available, you
can dial and tune this value accordingly.
So here,
if err does not equal to nil, we can,
you can just return that error like so.
Otherwise, when you p.plain text is
going to be plain text password and
p.hash is gonna be the hash like this and
then we can return no.
So we have one method to
set the hash we have to
have another method that
compares the hash representation.
So if a user is logging in,
that hash representation to a plain text
that they could be submitting
on the format, if you log in,
you typically log in with
like a username and password.
So we wanna make sure that a plain
text representation of the password
matches the hash for the the hash
that we stored in our database.
So to do this,
let's make another function, p.
>> Melkey: Password.
We're gonna call this function matches
like so and it's gonna take
a plain text password which is
gonna be a string and
then I'm have a bool and an error like so.
We're still going to depend on bcrypt,
so we can create this error.
I'm gonna do bcrypt,
compare, hash and password.
So here we're going to p.hash,
okay, to again,
the byte representation of plain
text password like so, oops.
If err does not equal to nil, there's
actually a few errors that could happen.
One is that compare hash and
password does throw an error
if they mismatch, okay?
So in this case,
we're gonna add a switch statement.
>> Melkey: And here case errors.
>> Melkey: dot is, okay?
So if the error from
here from calling bcrypt
matches the error from bcrypt and
its error, where is it?
Mismatched hash and password, okay?
So if that's the case,
we're gonna return false and nil.
Meaning false that the passwords do not
match, but there's no true error, okay?
They just bcrypt just throws an error
if it doesn't matches, okay?
Otherwise, we're gonna
have our default case.
So if there is still,
if error does not equal to nil and
it's not error is
the ErrMismatchedHashAndPassword error,
what we're gonna do is default
return false and error, okay?
So this is something like
an internal server error, right,
internal server error.
Like something's going on.
>> Melkey: Otherwise, if everything
is great, we can return true and no.
Now if we go back to our user handler, and
we are underneath this part with
how to deal with their passwords,
we can now make use of those
password functions we just created.
So here we can do error.
You can hit user.PasswordHash.Set, okay?
We can put in request.Password like so.
Next, let's check the error.
So if error does not equal to nil,
what we can do is h.Logger,
and we can just do PrintF not fatal.
We can do error.
>> Melkey: You can say hashing password,
again, this is going to be for us so
modulo V error,
whereas we'll respond to our client.
We can use utils.WriteJSON w,
we can do http.StatusInternalServerError,
okay?
And this part gets kind of dicey,
because, like I showed you earlier,
well, if we're setting this not a problem,
but for when we do matches,
you don't wanna tell a potential
bad actor, like a fraud.
Actually try to hack an account that
that combination of username exists and
the passwords wrong, right?
Then they know, okay, so there's
actually a user with that username or
email in your database,
I just have to crack the password.
So again, my expertise is definitely
not security or how to handle that.
I'll refer to some experts to
give the best suggestions.
But when you do respond to your client,
you don't explicitly say,
hey, pastor is not correct.
You just kind of give a broad statement,
say,
we can't match the two combinations of
using our password, for example, right?
But again, I'll refer to experts in
the field on what they suggest for
handling that.
But in this case, because we know
we are just setting the password,
we know that we can do error, internal
server error, and we can just return.
>> Melkey: All right, now,
with all that being done,
can finally call the function
that creates the user.
So here we can do error,
we can call h.userStore,
create user, and
we can pass in that user like so.
If error does not equal to nil,
go ahead and
just copy the logger and
the right JSON with the return.
So instead of hashing password,
we can make registering user,
notice type up here.
>> Melkey: And you can keep it like that.
>> Melkey: And while you copy that down,
we're gonna do that.
If there is no error, we're able
to successfully create the user.
We can do whttpStatusOK.
And we can also send back utils.Envelope.
We can say user and
bring that user like so.
And actually, it's not StatusOK,
StatusCreated is the more
appropriate status response here.
We did the database layer.
We did the API layer.
We just have to do one last layer,
which is the easiest, and
that's routing it across our application,
which we know how to do.
We first should start in the app.go,
like so.
And now,
since we've introduced a new store,
we can go all the way up here, okay?
Let's first create the new
UserHandler api.UserHandler like so,
and then right here we can do UserStore,
store.NewPostgresUserStore past pgDB and
in here UserHandler api.NewUseHandler will
pass in the userStore and
the logger like so.
And it underneath the UserHandler
will pass in the userHandler.
Last thing we got to do is go into
our routes, and let's do r.Post.
This gonna be /users.
And here
app.UserHandler.Handle.RegisterUser,
all right?
So now we have fully
connected everything again.
We do this one much faster.
We've connected our user database
to our user API, across our app,
through our routes.
Only thing left is to test it, so
we have this HandleRegisterUser
go to your running go server.
You can nuke that.
Run, Go, run main.go,
see if you have any obvious errors.
I do not, that's good.
Make sure your docker is still running,
okay?
>> Melkey: Check, Select All.
>> Melkey: Okay, if you have that issue,
you can just, I'm just double checking
that it's to confirm I don't
have any users in my database.
Select all from users.
PSQL shows me it is empty.
And if I just go back to
the post underscore notes.txt.
If I go down to section 3.1 right here,
I've provided an example payload
request for you to copy and
paste into your terminal or
into your URL application.
Or app API, application.
So I paste this.
You can see here it's curl-x POST,
which is the method,
localhost:8080/users, the application
type, and then the payload,
which includes a username,
email, password and bio.
So click Enter,
you can now see we've gotten a response.
User id:1, Username, email,
bio, created at and updated at.
And now if I go to psql and run the exact
same command to check if we have a user,
you now should see we do,
in fact have our username, John Doe,
with all of their credentials.
And you can notice the password is,
in fact hashed.